then the Lord sent Nathan to David there
were two men in one city one rich and
the other poor the rich man had
exceedingly many flocks and herds but
the poor man had nothing except one
little ewe lamb which he had bought and
nourished and it grew up together with
him and with his children it ate of his
own food and drank from his own cup and
lay in his bosom and it was like a
daughter to him and a traveler came to
the rich man who refused to take from
his own flock and from his own herd to
prepare one for the wayfaring man who
had come to him but he took the poor
man's lamb and prepared it for the man
who had come to him so David's anger was
greatly aroused against the man as the
Lord lives the man who has done this
shall surely die and he shall restore
fourfold for the lamb because he did
this thing and because he had no pity
you are the man thus says the Lord God
of Israel i anointed you king over
Israel and I delivered you from the hand
of Saul I gave you your masters house
and your masters wives into your keeping
and gave you the house of Israel and
Judah and if that had been too little I
also would have given you much more why
have you despised the commandment of the
Lord to do evil in his sight
you have killed Uriah the Hittite with
the sword you have taken his wife to be
your wife and have killed him with the
sword of the people of ammon now
therefore the sword shall never depart
from your house because you have
despised me and have taken the wife of
Uriah the Hittite
be your wife thus says the Lord behold I
will raise up adversity against you from
your own house and I will take your
wives before your eyes and give them to
your neighbor and he shall lie with your
wives in the sight of this son for you
did it secretly but I will do this thing
before all Israel before the son I have
sinned against the Lord the Lord also
has put away your sin you shall not die
however because by this deed you have
given great occasion to the enemies of
the Lord to blaspheme the child also who
was born to you shall surely die
the Nathan departed to his house and the
Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife
brought to David and it became ill David
therefore pleaded with God for the child
and David fasted and went in the lay all
night on the ground so the elders of his
house arose and went to him to raise him
up from the ground but he would not nor
did he eat food with them then on the
seventh day came to pass that the child
died
and the servants of David were afraid to
tell him that the child was dead indeed
while the child was alive we spoke to
him
and he would not heed our voice how can
we tell him that the child is dead he
may do some harm when David saw that his
servants were whispering David perceived
that the child was dead
therefore david said to his servants is
the child dead he is dead
so David arose from the ground washed
and anointed himself and changed his
clothes and he went into the house of
the lord and worshiped
then he went to his own house and when
he requested they set food before him
and he ate then his servants said to him
what is this that you have done you
fasted and wept for the child while he
was alive but when the child died you
arose and made food while the child was
alive I fasted and wept for I said who
can tell whether the Lord will be
gracious to me that the child may live
but now he is dead why should I fast can
I bring him back again I shall go to him
but he shall not return to me
then David comforted Bathsheba his wife
and went into her and lay with her so
she bore a son and he called his name
Solomon now the Lord loved him and he
sent word by the hand of Nathan the
prophet so he called his name Jedediah
because of the Lord
now Joab fought against rabba of the
people of Ammon and took the Royal City
and Joab sent messengers to David I have
fought against rabba and I have taken
the city's water supply
now therefore gather the rest of the
people together and then camp against
the city and take it lest I take the
city and it be called after my name so
David gathered all the people together
and went to rather fought against it and
took it when he took their kings crown
from his head its weight was a talent of
gold with precious stones and it was
sent on David's head also he brought out
the spoil of the city in great abundance
and he brought out the people who are in
it and put them to work with swords and
iron picks and iron axes and made them
cross over to the brickworks so he did
to all the cities of the people of ammon
then David and all the people returned
to Jerusalem
[Music]